---
title: Introduction to fMRI Analysis
date: 2015-07-05 00:00:00 Z
published: false
layout: post
---

# fMRI Analysis

1. [Introduction](#1)
2. [MRI Data](#2)


----------------------
<a id="1"></a>
## Introduction

Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) is a noninvasive medical test, that uses a powerful magnetic field, radio frequency pulses and a computer to produce detailed pictures of organs, soft tissues, bone and virtually all other internal body structures.

### Structural VS functional

Structural imaging of the body gives anatomical detail and precision and it's mainly used for the diagnosis of disease or injury. It's similar to CT scans.

In the other hand, functional MRI is used to study active processes. The way data is collected and processed differs from structural studies on being time based. PET is another technique used to measure activation or metabolism in the body, but it's invasiveness makes it a second line study for non pathological cases.

<a id="2"></a>
## MRI Data

Spatial resolution determines how "sharp" the image looks. Low resolution will give either fuzzy edges, or a pixelly appearance to the image.

In MRI, spatial resolution is defined by the size of the imaging voxels. Since voxels are three dimensional rectangular solids, the resolution is frequently different in the three different directions. The size of the voxel and therefore the resolution depends on matrix size, the field-of-view (FOV), and the slice thickness. The matrix size is the number of frequency encoding steps, in one direction; and the number of phase encoding steps, in the other direction of the image plane. Assuming everything else is constant, increasing the number of frequency encodings or the number of phase steps results in improved resolution. The frequency encoding depends of how rapidly the FID signal is sampled by the scanner. Increasing the sampling rate results in no time penalty. Increasing the number of phase steps increases the time of the acquisition proportionately
